LATINE. 109

boys then could beg so winsombly for 00 “ aa '¹ as now fora
“solda” Once the children, on their way to school, were greatly
terrified. A servant 01 the dreaded decemvir, Appius Claudius,
led away from there their playmate Virginis, and brought her
before the neighboring tribunal of his patrous, while he asserted
that Virginis, 00 the daughter 01 one of his slaves, belonged to
him. But 0 01111 more fearful experience awaited them on the
morrow. As early as daybrealr the whole body of the citizens
stood in the Forum in anxious curiosity, for on that day the fate
of the maiden was 10 be decided. Virginius, also, who had been
brought from the neighboring camp, appeared long before the
beginning of the trial, and sought by his grief to arouse the sym-
pathy of the bystanders. He stepped up to different individuale,
pressed their hands, and spoke to thern in aloud voice, 00 that
all might 11001,οὶ the danger which threatened them also, if they
would not protect him. Of the trial itself not every word reached
the ears of the listening boys, but they soon saw that something
altogether out 01 the common must follow the violent altercation
between the judge and the defendant.

[To lle continued]

THE EDUCATION 011· THE ROMAN BOY. [By Ε. T. Tornlr'nsorr,
Head Mastesotautgets ooflege damnassem] [concludat]

The Roman boys, as a rule, attended the school of the rhe-
tores before they put on the 1090 virilia. The instruction here,
as among the Greeks, began very early ln the morning. Solon,
sothe story runs, passed a law forbidding schools 10 open be·
fore sunrise. There was no mild reciting, either, as regards the
tone. We read 01 the complaint of certain Romans who left the
city because 01 the din of the scholare, which began 00 early in
the morning as 10 disturb their slumbers. We read, too, 01 the
complaints of certain parents at the harshness of the teachers,
and some of the Roman writers strongly contend for the benefits
10 be gained from a pleasant manner and friendly dealing 01
toacher and pupil; but the best authorityl can find does not
allow that the mild practice was a common one. A stem, almost
Spartan, rigor was maintained, and the rod played no small part
in accelerating the¹ tardy steps of Roman boys up the steep and
difficolt hill of learning. It is impossible to define the exact

 

